We all love these LinkedIn comments get
post or at least that's what it seems
when thousands of people are commenting
and liking in order to get a strategy.
Let's go through another one and see
what I actually think about the
structure. Let's see what the
suggestions are. Let's see where things
are. So, let's jump into it.
It's just me riffing on a strategy.
There's nothing mean to it. There's
nothing to it. This is my opinion and
there's not no ill intentions uh met at
all. But I have removed all naming just
so make sure nobody feels hurt when I do
these things.
So let me start off by saying that the
second I see something saying I've
audited over 500 Google ad accounts then
I think something's wrong. Nobody's
audited 500 accounts. I have but it's
over 15 years. What I audited 15 years
ago, even 10 years, maybe even five
years ago have no merit today. So again,
no this is a marketing ploy, but I just
get annoyed when I see things like that.
Here's
where it starts wrong in my opinion.
Branded search, branded shopping. Okay,
cool. Prospecting search, prospecting
shopping. I have a fundamental issue
with calling campaigns for prospecting
search and prospecting shopping when
they didn't say branded shopping. If you
do something that's super broad with
broad match or for search or shopping,
go something super broad or feeder
campaign and you kind of call it
prospecting. I can kind of I can kind of
get my head around that even though I
don't like it. But saying you have a
campaign that's called prospecting and
then you have prospecting search
indicates to me that you're looking at
branded search as something that is a
part of your funnel when it's not. It's
just you have to be there. You have to
defend the position especially in some
industries. It's really really important
that you do but at the end of the day
it's a defense play. It's not part of
your funnel. And it completely
misunderstands the funnel because the
bottom funnel is very very important but
that's not something that you
technically do with branded search. It's
just a brand defense. So that's my first
thing where I just go me I don't like
that.
If we start with the branded search how
to structure maximum control minimum
waste blah blah blah precision is key.
Many brands waste budget but use the
wrong match types. I agree. Broad
targeting I agree. Messy campaign search
100% agree. Exact framework we use. I
like it. Always erase run branded search
and separate campaign. Love it. Do not
mix brand and nonbrand. That's a given
but I agree. Clear labeling. 100% agree.
uh use target impression share for your
bidding strategy. I don't like target
impression share. I I I can kind of get
my head around using it if you also use
a maximum bid that's really really low.
Otherwise, in my opinion, it does the
same thing as smart bing does. It over
bids, especially if you put a too high
impression share, which people like. I
like that they put in a 90% impression.
I agree with that. There's no need to do
anything more than that. Use manual CPC
want to keep tight controls early stage
hybrid organic dominance. pro if
competitors bidding for your brand lean
towards more targeting pressure toward
those key traffic. So I fundamentally
don't agree on that. I think that if you
have a lot of bidding and for your brain
term and it's something where when you
lower your bids you're going to lose
clicks and traffic and conversions then
I would say run an experiment. It's the
only way to actually AB test how much
you're losing. Looking at impression
share can be a difficult thing to look
at. If I were you try to run an
experiment. It's what we do in Savvy and
it works really really well. Keyword
strategy exact match first. I agree.
Phrase match, I just do the same. I
can't see why it's the difference.
Monitor phrase, convert any high
performing into exact match. It makes no
difference whatsoever to do that.
There's no need to do that. So, I just I
think that's that's unnecessary to do.
And I I like that they say don't use
broad match. I completely and utterly uh
agree. Landing page strategy. Now, we're
starting to over complicate it. Like in
in my opinion, homepage is is typically
the best 90% of cases as it's usually
the most optimized page. you also don't
know what people are actually getting
into your website for. I feel that they
proposed this strategy just it's just an
overly complicated uh strategy. I think
makes makes little sense. Then on the
the ad copy side like I like it. It's
it's nice and simple. So official store
is is nice and simple. Protect trust. I
like that. Adding social proof some
offers some key benefits. Overall I like
it. I agree with the overall sentiment
towards doing all this. It works.
Extensions. They need to have it in
here. Uh I like the like I like the
detail that they go into this branding
campaign. I must say um I like all of
this. It's it's the right thing to do
across the board. So key metrics and
benchmarks target impression share.
Yeah, I can agree with that. I do think
that it's very important to look at
clicks and not just look at it look at
from a target impression share
perspective because if your conversion
if your ROS is low then that makes no
sense. He does also say or they also say
that ROS is typically very high. I agree
100%. Segment reporting. I agree. Seeing
that it's a different campaign, you
don't have to actively segment it out,
but when you report it, always segment
it out. I agree 100%. CCR, I like to
have have it in there. I haven't really
looked at it in a long time. Conversion
rate is overly complicated. No need to
look at it. So, overall, like I I I like
it. Like the approach to branded search
here is sound. I think it's slightly
over complicates what should be a very
straightforward campaign type, but uh
nine out of 10.
Then there's branded shopping. Protect
your brain space. Maximize shopping
conversions. Branded shopping campaigns
are smart lever when used intentionally.
The goal isn't to inflate performance,
but to capture control brand demand in
one of the most competitive search
placements. I think it's a little bit
that's a little bit much, but I I do
agree. Campaign priority and structuring
priority always run dedicated. I agree.
Set low priority. This allows branded
queries to flow the campaign. That's
correct. Product selection start with
five to 10 uh bestsellers. Uh I can kind
of get the idea behind it. I typically
disagree with limiting to only 5% bests
sellers. does mean you have to keep it
up. Uh especially if you're in fashion,
you have to keep it up to what's the
best sellers in this particular time.
Otherwise, you might be showing shorts
when it is winter. If you have a dynamic
way to do it, this might be a very good
way to do it. In my opinion, I've never
really seen it be a huge problem. We
haven't seen a huge performance increase
on conversions when we do this. It seems
to just work out, which which makes a
lot of sense. Product titles include
brand name and I started product titles.
So, I disagree here. A, I don't see the
purpose. And B, I think that it is a bad
idea because you can't only add product
titles for this campaign. They write for
this campaign. That's fundamentally
wrong. You can't just do it for one
campaign. It's a product. So, unless you
create duplicate products and create
different titles for that, which again
is overly complicated to do for a brand
shopping campaign standpoint, I just
think this part is completely
ridiculous. It makes no sense.
Reinforces brand identity visually.
That's not true. There's no need to do
that. Keyword management. You can't do
keyword management. So, it's negative
keyword management. Use a branded
shopping script to exclude non-branded
queries. Okay, so this is a very typical
thing I see and I see a lot of
especially in-house people do this uh
where they take their script and it's a
problem with the campaign structure. It
indicates there's an there's a
fundamental issue with the way that
you've set it up. When non-branded terms
appear in your branded shopping, it's
typically because of one or two reasons.
Either your bids are way too high in
your branded campaigns, or B, the
products in your branded campaigns
aren't in the non-branded campaigns. And
when that happens, the campaign
structure with priorities doesn't work.
So without a proper set, like if you do
a proper setup, you don't you shouldn't
need scripts. We run multi-million
dollar campaigns without them. So it is
not and it is not possible. The only
place I've seen this actually be a
problem is with Pmax because it seems
that the relationship between standard
shopping and PMAX have somehow created
some issues with uh with with the
campaign priorities and it's completely
water it out. If you do pmax, I I have
kind of seen it. If your bids start
being high enough in your branded
shopping campaign and low enough in your
pax campaign, then I have noticed the
issue as well. But at that case, you
shouldn't use a script. You should do
something else because using the script
is just it doesn't work. It's playing
whack-a-ole and you're going to end up
just having way too many negative
keywords and not really trusting the
branded setup. Bidding strategy, use
target ros uh new account. Start with
manual CPC. works well if you have many
products and you have competition.
That's that's what it does well and
that's also where why in in those cases
that I've never had an issue with
running all our products because target
rowers help surface the best performing
products and so bits higher for them
versus others. So just adding all
products has never really been an issue
for me. However, if you have a high
volume branded shopping then manual CPC
can be more straightforward and much
more effective. I typically don't like
using target ROS on my brand shopping
campaigns unless there's a big wholesale
pre presence and my branded keyword
basically becomes a midfunnel keyword
and I'm competing with other
wholesalers. I'm competing with
competitors and stuff like that.
Otherwise, careful with that. I would
highly highly recommend that you set
much higher target rows than suggested
and they do say okay to put 500,000%. I
would say this has to be something
relative to the account uh and what kind
of business you are. This is slightly
overly simplifying the bidding, but it's
okay. Audience layering completely
unnecessary. Like, I'll just I'll just
say it right now. This this is branded
shopping and somebody searching for your
brand. Just bid for it. There's no need
to do anything with audiences. There's
no need to do anything there. You're not
going to bid differently for past
purchases or retargeting or high value
customer segments like you have a dollar
bid or whatever it is and like a dollar
or 78 cents is not going to make a
difference. Your royals are so high and
there shouldn't unless you're Nike. And
again this is then then this is a
different keyword then it's not a
branded keyword then it's a bottom
funnel or metfunnel keyword so I think
this is completely unnecessary
exclusions and account hygiene and
exclude branded terms love it prevents
love it love it that's very good key
metrics I like it I like the complexity
in all this and the reason why I mention
I like the complexity and all these
things they're mentioning here uh is
because I'm going to take that over to
when we talk about the other setups
because so far branded shopping it's
been good seven out of 10 I think
there's some things here titles, product
selection, that's a little bit meh, but
overall this would do well.
Prospecting search without saying that I
don't like the word prospecting anymore.
The real I agree the real growth
opportunity is non-brand. That's where
you're supposed to be spending most of
your time. I agree with that. The
relevance trinity query to ads page 100%
agree. I've been saying this for 15
years. It's the most important thing
that you need to do when you set it up.
Then you don't need to spend time
talking about quality score or anything
like that. So I I generally I I like it.
Query to match ad to landing page makes
perfect sense. Campaign development
journey start with manual CPC bidding. I
fundamentally agree here. I I I get the
theoretical reason to do this. Uh and
maybe if you work with really small
accounts then that then this can make
sense. However, they do say and mention
high spends and stuff like that and how
you need to scale to 300,000 per month
and like then that this is just wrong.
You shouldn't start with manual bidding
because it is so inefficient. uh and you
usually don't get anything out of it. So
starting out a maximize conversion value
for search makes sense. That's where
where I would start with careful budget
and you can even start with target rows.
I've done both and there's no issue with
starting there especially if you use
portfolios. I don't like that he says
accept lower rows in your branding
campaigns. It's it insinuates there's a
relationship between the two even though
they do say that you should split out
report and everything. However, I don't
like it. Add copy stand out. I like it.
Highlight USPs. Use call to actions.
Based on my testing, I don't think that
call to actions are that important in
e-commerce. Call fill out a demo. LA
that starts making more sense and I've
seen more success with that, but I work
less in lead genen these days than than
ever before. So, test mult tool speak
directly to a search intent. Agree.
Include specific benefits outcomes.
Agree. Test multiple ad variations. I
like it. Performance monitoring
framework. I assume this is nothing to
do with ads. Quality score. Can we start
looking at quality score? I've not
looked at quality score for many years.
Never done anything specifically for it
outside. If you do this, then you're
doing well. Then there's no need to do
anything more than this. So I I'll take
that out. Ctr, yeah, I kind of get it. I
I agree there. Search for check every 48
hours to add negative keywords. Heck no.
A 48 hour negative keyword review is way
too aggressive. Keywords need a lot more
time to generate meaningful conversion
data. Every 48 hours, you don't get
conver you don't give conversion like
any ability to actually do anything. and
you're going to create an excessive
negative keyword list that will without
a doubt restrict campaign growth in
there. So, I would also say negative
keywords are less important for most
campaigns today. Unless you're in a
niche or B2B or low volume, then smart
bidding can effectively manage keyword
performance and negate the need to
actually use negative keywords. And I
know everybody's screaming at me, "No,
Andrew, they can't. I get what you're
saying and I overall agree, but I've
just seen so many times removing
negative keywords. We have a video on it
and how it can actually generate more.
So, this just reads to me, you're going
to end up having way too many negative
keywords in there. New customer rate. I
like having it in there, but without
saying if you don't say how to actually
do it, then it then this is just a word
and there's no way anybody who reads
this will think that okay, I also need
to add negative keywords every 48 hours
and I need to check customer rate.
Doesn't make sense. Implementation best
practices. Create tightly themed ad
groups. Don't dump 40 loosely. I like
that. Can you give me an example?
Landing page alignment. That's what we
had before. Makes sense. Negative
keyword discipline makes no sense. And
that's it. And I don't like this. This
is way too simple. There are so many
things that you could talk about. For
instance, there's no guidance on keyword
selection like generic keyword versus
product versus category versus feature
versus brand. Again, if this is DDC,
it's fine. But there's also use case
keywords. So many different keywords out
there and there's nowhere around the
keyword selection here. Could do a
campaign keyword development journey too
where you say okay we start out with at
least two words category keywords and
longtail then we move into product
specific and then we move into generic
lacks a keyword organization framework.
I would also say when we look at it it's
missing overall campaign structure when
it comes to scaling on brand like how do
you actually scale it? I think when I
look at it this is just way too simple
compared to the amount of detail that
went into when it came to brand search
and brand shopping. This just seems way
too little. I would have liked to have
seen this to be two, three times longer
or the other one to be half the size.
Just it indicates to me something is
wrong with the strategy that somebody's
following here.
Prospecting shopping prospecting search
key shopping a visual showcase to new
customers any customers. There are two
approaches. Manual shopping campaign.
It's not a manual shopping campaign.
It's a standard shopping campaign.
Performance max feed only focus on
shopping. There's basically no
difference between the two. Uh if you
use a standard shopping and a Pmax feed
only, basically no difference
whatsoever. I like that at least they
don't go in and say and suggest a full
PMX campaign. I like that. Other than
that, there's pretty much no difference
between these two setups, meaning except
that you have a little bit less uh
controls here. And in Pmax, you have
some other things like maximize
conversion value and other things you
can't access in standard shop. So feed
optimization foundation for success. I
agree. Productivity title engineering. I
hate the engineering word frontload
first 70 characters high performing
search terms. Agree that's a good thing.
Uh lead with the product category and
type what people search for. I agree.
Include key specification. Agree. Add
brand name at the end. Overall agree if
you're selling other people's brands. So
if you're a reseller and placing the
brand name at the beginning as it's
often a high converting keyword. It
works really well. If you're DDC brand
and wouldn't even add your brand name to
a title or place it at the end unless
you have problems showing up for your
own brand term in shop. Image
optimization visual optimization.
Overall, they they they place this at
the same level as product title uh
engineering optimization. And I think
that's wrong. In 99% of the cases that I
see, the hero product image that gets
pulled out of the platform into Google
Shopping is already the most optimized
image. However, I do agree that in some
cases, the images that might look good
in full size might perform really poorly
when scaled down in the shopping ads and
even worse when it goes down to mobile
where 80 90% of the traffic is. So
that's why all I wanted to say say here
is like I think this is overly stated. I
don't think this is necessary to do at
this level. I think that you should only
invest time in image optimization when
there's a clear issue with how your
products are displayed in a smaller ad
format. So I don't think that's that
important. Descriptions not important
whatsoever. Just let it be. If you have
no descriptions, you can kind of let AI
write it, but you should have
descriptions for product pages anyways
for SEO purposes. So, if you're missing
uh descriptions, that's an issue in and
of itself, but I would spend no time
optimizing the description. Excluding
brand searches, I agree. Let's do that.
That makes perfect sense. Campaign
segmentation strategies, bestsellers
versus others. I'm a huge fan of that.
That works really, really well for a lot
of different businesses. Product
category segmentation particularly
effective for what I have never in my
life seen that work. So, this is in my
opinion a huge mistake. So, you should
avoid any of these like arbitrary
category splits like a top versus a
bottom. There's no performance
difference whatsoever between the two.
Um, and there's not different people
searching for it. Like that whole thing
makes no sense. It just reduces the data
volume for smart bidding to do. If it's
fashion, if it's apparel, only create
two different campaigns if you have
distinct seasonal categories. Again,
like winter versus summer product,
shorts versus coats. That's what that
then it kind of kind of makes sense.
Otherwise, don't split on category is a
really bad idea. and I've just I roll it
back all the time when I see it. Then
margin based segmentation, if you
haven't heard me say this already, I
absolutely hate margin based
segmentation. It is ineffective because
what somebody actually clicks on in
Google ads, it doesn't mean that they're
going to buy that. Doesn't even mean
they're buying that same category or
brand. So, it's a fake thing. You think
that it actually works uh to work. If
you want to have anything when it comes
to margins, then use profit based
betting instead. I have a long video on
that. last word on campaign
segmentization is a little bit raw. I
think that somebody needs to get more
thinking into this. Uh and seeing that
these two are basically wrong. I think
that there's big room to optimize here.
Evolution path follow this progression.
Manual CPC. Again, if I didn't like
manual CBC for branded search where we
where where we can choose what we want
to bid for different keywords, then I
absolutely hate it for shopping. It has
been one of the biggest performance
gains ever that people were like five
years ago were forced to use smart
shopping, not smart bidding, but smart
shopping where they couldn't bid for bid
for the individual products because
manual bidding works horrible. It's
super ineffective because you can't bid
at the search term level. So just again
here just skip straight to target rows.
You can't use maximize conversion value
if you standard shopping. So that's only
a PMX thing. Then they say there's an
evolution path here. Manual shopping to
PMX. There's absolutely no benefit to
migrating standard shopping campaigns to
PMX. Either choose PMAX or choose
standard shopping. There's no need to do
anything else here. Uh don't migrate
from manual shopping to PMX will not
perform better. It's the same engines.
It's the same everything. This whole
part makes no sense. Ongoing
optimization tactics for manual shopping
search add negatives. Can we stop adding
negatives? If I didn't like negatives
for search ads, I absolutely hate it for
shopping because if you're doing a
negative keywords for shopping ads, then
you don't know what product it was it
was matched to. If it's matched to a
poor performing product, then was it the
product's fault or is it keywords,
search terms fault that the per
performance is low. So I I generally
don't like negative keywords in shopping
ads only if I really really have to
product titles. I like that. I don't see
how based on performance how that can be
done. Please write in the comments if
you have any smart way to do that. But
I've never seen based on performance
because it's e-commerce like people
search for a product. I know what people
search for. When they search for that
product, I have the data. I put that
those search terms into the titles and
that's it. Removing search terms that
perform poorly is generally not
applicable to do in shop. Bid
adjustments by product group. You cannot
do that. Like if you do bid management
and manual bidding, yes, you can. But
this is just flawed to say competitive
benchmark monitoring. I would write what
do you mean? Add product reviews and
seller ratings. Yes. Optimize shipping.
Optimize. Just set them. There's no
optimization tactic around there.
Implement special offers and promotions.
Yeah. And monitor competitive price
positioning kind of. Yeah, that was it.
So again, I go back to the whole thing.
I think this is overly simple compared
to how much detail was gone into for
everything else. So I hope you liked it.
Mention in the comments where you think
I was wrong, where you think I was
right, is there anything on all this
that you think that I should have done
differently or that you really, really
like from here. Let me know. And again,
this is all in good fun. This is all in
just getting different perspectives on
what we see working out there. If you're
into practical PPC insights that you can
actually help you, then subscribe. I
share tips, breakdowns, and call out
what's working and what's not. No fluff,
just the stuff that you can use every
single week.